[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Okay so you may still be kind of
like it's crazy and it's mind bending,
what kind of weirdnesss
are you creating here?
I do expound upon this
more in the chapter.
But let me show you one other way and
this is much more
applicable to the coding that we're
gonna be doing for the rest of today.
One other way that we can use that
closure trick to our advantage and
it's called the module design.
Module is perhaps the most important
design pattern in all of JavaScript.
It's certainly the most
prolific design pattern.
So again, remember the pattern that we
wanna look for is having an outer function
and an inner function, without fully
understanding the mechanics of closure.
If you just look for that pattern where
one function sits inside of another,
you'll know that's how closure
ends up getting created,
having one inside of the other.
So if I wanted to be able
to hide some details.
I could have an outer
function called Hello.
And in here, it could take
a name as its initial parameter.
And inside of here I could
have a function called speak
that uses that name variable.
So everybody see how that name
variable is accessible to it?
Because of the scoping thing,
that I can always walk up and
find it in a upper level.
So that function speak,
if I return function speak,
this is exactly like we just saw with make
outer, I'm returning a function back.
And I know if I say fn = Hello("Kyle"),
then and
now I have a function that
every time I call it,
it's going to annoyingly say
the name Kyle, all right.
Super useful function, maybe the most
useful function I've ever taught you,
is a function that when you call it,
all it does is it prints my name.
That will probably be one of
the cornerstone foundations of all of your
JavaScript programming is that, okay.
So, for
those of you on line I'm joking obviously.
Okay, so
if I return a function that's great but
what happens if I return something
slightly more useful like an object.
So, we know we saw earlier that blocks,
when we have a pair of curly
braces that looks like a block.
When a curly brace pair is used in
the place where you would normally expect
a value, it's not a block, it's an object.
And objects have properties and
values on them.
So, let me just do a side note here.
If I said something like o
= a curly brace pair, and
I put a property on it like super,
well let's not use super.
Let's use awesome as my property name and
the value is cool.
So I have an object with
one property on it and
that property has the value string cool.
That means later in my program
I can say o.awesome and
it will give me that value cool.
So, it's a way to put property values or
function methods on an object, okay.
>> Kyle: Isn't there a way to call
speak from outside the hello function?
So, let's back up.
If all I do is return speak here,
>> Kyle: The only
way to call that is to call it with fn.
If I tried to say speak,
would that work or would that not work?
>> Speaker 2: It's out of scope.
>> Kyle: It's out of scope.
Does everyone see that this
name is only available inside,
it's not available outside,
by the same rules of scoping.
We can go in one direction,
we can go upward, but
we can't go downward into scope, okay?
So I can't call speak here,
but because I'm returning it,
then I have access to be able
to call it from the outside.
So I can say fn.
And that's what lets me
annoyingly print out Kyle.
>> Kyle: But now if we consider instead
of just passing back a single function.
If we pass back an object like this, and
on that object I have a property
name called speak, as we see here.
That is referencing this internal one,
these names do not have to match, but
let's just make them match for now.
If this is what I return for my function,
instead of getting this as a function,
this is an object now.
Does everybody see that?
What I'm getting back is
an object not a function, and
now what I can say instead of
saying o() cuz it's not a function,
what I say is o.the property name speak.
>> Kyle: And to hammer that point home, if
I gave it an entirely different name like
say, then that's the name I
could use on the outside.
>> Kyle: In other words,
I have this internal function,
which is only accessible
inside of the hello function.
And I have something on the outside that
is accessible only as that external name,
with whatever I end up calling it.
Is everybody following that or
am I losing people?
What if you passed in an argument to say.
We could definitely set this up to accept
an argument in the news that I'm just
keeping the example simple.
But we could definitely set
it up that I could pass
in something,
like if I called this last name.
We could definitely use that.
>> Kyle: And that would print it out.
>> Kyle: See how that's exactly like
the make outer that I was showing before?
It remembers one variable from its closure
and it gets another one passed in.
Same thing as what make outer was doing.
So what we're seeing here is that
returning this object from a function
call, is essentially creating
what we in programming terms
call a public API.
The stuff that's on the inside,
like this function, any variables
that I might declare inside of there.
All that stuff is completely private.
We can't get at it from the outside world.
But the stuff that we put in this object,
and
return it back,
that is accessible to the outside world.
Which is like a public API to
access the internal module.
>> Speaker 2: Just some questions
on what's better or why.
>> Kyle: Why would I return an object?
An object won't let me have
multiple methods on my API.
So, if I had 15 inner functions and
I wanted to expose 5 of them, I could list
all 5 of them here and I'd have an API
that had multiple public end points.
So returning an object,
lets me put multiple things here.
If the speak was the only function
that was necessary to expose,
you could have of course
just returned only the.
>> Speaker 3: So in other words,
you could have the last one
of the one of the properties.
You could have lastName, and
you could return lastName,
or firstName, or whatever you find.
>> Kyle: If I said lastName here,
what value would I assign to it?
>> Speaker 3: Probably,
the last name that was passed in.
>> Kyle: You could conceivably want to
assign off that lastName somewhere, but
there's no way to access this object
the way it's currently written to be able
to do that.
So a more realistic scenario is to
suggest,
>> Kyle: That we might
have a method called firstName,
>> Kyle: Which does nothing.
It doesn't take anything,
>> Kyle: Except it returns back to
the name that we initially passed in.
So now, I have two different
methods as we say on my public API.
One of them is say which
prints things out,
the other one is firstName,
which doesn't print anything out but
it returns back that initial value
that I passed in, the value Kyle.
So, it's two different ways of defining
these methods on my public API.